# Speech Person Recognition 2018
## Writter
1. Enomoto
2. Makino
3. Okano
## Use
1. Connect Realsence
2. Human detector activate
3. Command controler
4. Finally,execute spr
~~~
$ roslaunch realsense realsense_r200_launch.launch

$ cd ~/catkin_ws/src/e_human_detector/darknet
$ rosrun e_human_detector e_human_detector.py

## TODO CommandCon

$ python ~/catkin_ws/src/tm_speech_person_recognition/scripts/spr.py
~~~
## Memo 
activate:  
'$ crowd_list_req_pub.py'

Human detecter topic:  
'$ rostopic pub /human_detect_req std_msgs/Bool "data: false"'

3D Rider activate:  
'$ roslaunch turtlebot_bringup 3dsensor.launch'

Base activate:  
'$ roslaunch turtlebot_bringup minimal.launch'

## SPR Rules
[rule](https://latexonline.cc/compile?git=git%3A%2F%2Fgithub.com%2FRoboCupAtHome%2FRuleBook.git&target=Rulebook.tex&trackId=1528554714900)
----------

5.4. Speech and Person Recognition
The robot has to identify unknown people and answer questions about them and the environment.
5.4.1. Focus
This test focuses on human detection, sound localization, speech recognition, and robot interaction
with unknown people.
5.4.2. Setup
1. Location: One room of the arena is used for this test3
.
2. Crowd: There is a crowd of 5 to 10 people in the designated room. People may be
standing, sitting, lying, and in any pose.
3. Doors: All doors of the apartment are open, except for the entry door.
5.4.3. Task
1. Start: The robot starts at a designated starting position and announces it wants to play
riddles.
2. Waiting and turn: After stating that it wants to play a riddle game, the robot waits for
10 seconds while a crowd is merged on it’s back. When the time elapses, the robot must
turn around (about 180°) and find the crowd.
3. Requesting an operator: After turning around, the robot must state the size of the
crowd (including male and female count4
) and request for an operator (e.g. who want to
play riddles with me? ). The crowd will move and surround the robot, letting the operator
to stand in front of the robot.
4. The riddle game: Standing in front of the robot, the operator will ask 5 questions.
The robot must answer the question without asking confirmation. Questions will only be
asked only once; no repetitions are allowed.
5. [DSPL only] Blind man’s bluff game: Crowd line-up. The crowd will reposition,
lining up in front of the robot. A random person from the crowd standing in front of the
robot will ask a question. The robot may
• Turn towards the person who asked the question and answer the question
• Directly answer the question without turning
• Turn towards the person and ask them to repeat the question
This process is repeated with 10 (possibly) different people. The game will end when the
10th question has been made, following a similar distribution of questions as in the riddle
game. The robot must answer the question without asking confirmation. Questions may
be repeated once.
5. [OPL & SSPL] Blind man’s bluff game: Circling Crowd. The crowd will reposition,
making a circle around the robot. A random person from the crowd surrounding the robot
will ask a question. The robot may
• Turn towards the person who asked the question and answer the question
• Directly answer the question without turning
• Turn towards the person and ask them to repeat the question
This process is repeated with 5 (possibly) different people. The game will end when the
5th question has been made, following the same distribution of questions as in the riddle
game. The robot must answer the question without asking confirmation. Questions may
be repeated once.
6. Leave The robot must leave the arena/test area after all questions have been asked or
when instructed to do so.
5.4.4. Additional rules and remarks
1. Bypassing ASR: Bypassing Automated Speech Recognition via the CONTINUE rule
(see Section 3.9.1) is not allowed during this test.
2. Asked questions: The distribution of questions to be randomly asked is a follows:
• One is a predefined question
• Between one and two are about the arena and its status
• Between one and two are about the crowd
• Between one and two are about the list of official objects
Question examples see Appendix Section A. Questions are generated by the generator
which is made publicly available at https://github.com/kyordhel/GPSRCmdGen.
3. Distance to the robot: The distance between each person and the robot must be
between 0.75 and 1.0 meters away from the robot position (See Figure 5.3). In the riddle
game the operator shall be between -60◦ and 60◦
from the robot’s center (front range).
4. Precise turning: When the robot finishes turning toward an operator, it must be clear
that the robot is facing the person who made the question.
5. Question repetition: In the blind man’s bluff game, if the robot asks for repetition, it
should be done clear and loud, and after the robot has ended turning.
6. Question timeout: If the robot does not answer within 10 seconds, the question is
considered as missed, and referee will proceed with the next one.
7. Standing still operators Operators are not allowed to move to or turn towards the robot
or shout to the robot.
8. Water-clear answers: If the referee is unable to hear or understand the robot’s answer,
the question is considered as incorrect. Single-word and short answers should be avoided
5.4.5. Referee instructions
The referee needs to
• avoid shouting to the robot
• avoid getting closer to the robot (or even move)
• speak to the robot loud and clear with plain standard English
• avoid repeating questions for the same robot
• distribute the questions among the volunteers
5.4.6. OC instructions
1 day before the test
• Provide the set of predefined questions
2 hours before the test
• Announce the placement of the robots
• choose the volunteers for the second part of the test, and clearly explain the procedure to
them.
• When the test is held outside the arena, announce the (way)point through which the robot
shall leave
5.4.7. Audio Data Recollection
Teams are encouraged to submit to the TC the audio data recorded during the test, specially
that which was captured during speech recoginition. If so, teams are urged to provide it with
annotation of what the user said and what was recognized. Audio files are expected to be mono,
one per microphone (in the case array recordings), of a sample rate equal to or higher than 16
kHz, and with a sample size of at least 16 bits. Depending on the quality of the recordings
and their annothations, an official certificate that formalizes these efforts may be provided to
submitting teams.
